OTel Docs Localized Announcement Blog Post (#4996)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/docs-localized.md

---
title: OpenTelemetry website goes multilingual!
linkTitle: Multilingual website
date: 2024-08-21
author: >-

>   [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm) (Cisco),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm) (Cisco)
```

issue: 4863
sig: Comms

> cSpell:ignore: Comms

Reviewer: Let's consider adding "Comms" to the en-word list.

---

We are happy to announce that the OpenTelemetry website is available in
multiple languages! Localization teams have already started to translate website

> pages into [Portuguese](/pt), [Chinese](/zh), [Japanese](/ja) and [Spanish](/es).

Reviewer: Alphabetical order, and add an Oxford comma:

```suggestion
pages into [Chinese](/zh), [Japanese](/ja), [Portuguese](/pt), and [Spanish](/es).
```

The OpenTelemetry project has grown to include contributors and users from all
over the world. Making the website available in multiple languages is an
important step for ensuring that everyone, regardless of their native language,
can contribute to the project. We are also thrilled that this initiative gives
end users access to multilingual documentation, making it easier to learn and
understand OpenTelemetry.

To access the website in your preferred language, use the language
selector at the top right of the page.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We invite you to contribute to this effort. You can find fellow localization
contributors in the
[#otel-docs-localization](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C076RUAGP37)
Slack channel. If you are fluent in a language that is supported already, you
can help by authoring or reviewing translations. If your language is not yet
supported and you'd like to help translate, 

> [reach out to us by raising an issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/new?title=Add+%3Cyour%20language%3E+(%3Cyour+code%3E)+version+of+website+pages&body=%3C!--+please+provide+github+handles+of+at+least+2+people+that+will+work+on+this+translation+project%20--%3E).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[create an issue](<https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/new?title=Add+%3CYOUR%20LANGUAGE%3E+(%3CYOUR+LANG+CODE%3E)+version+of+website+pages&body=%3C!--+Provide+GitHub+handles+of+at+least+2+people+that+will+work+on+this+translation+project%20--%3E>).
```

Reviewer: Eventually, we could create an issue template that contains the main bullet points of initial things to be covered. WDYT?

---

> title: 中文, 日本語, Português — OpenTelemetry documentation is now localized

Reviewer: Actually, it's a bit more than just the pages under `/docs`:

```suggestion
title: 中文, 日本語, Português — OpenTelemetry website goes multilingual
```

> linkTitle: Documentation Localized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: Multilingual website
```

multiple languages! As of today teams have started to translate our resources in
Portuguese (pt), Chinese (zh) and Japanese (ja).

Our project has grown into a project with contributors and users spanning every
corner of the world. Therefor, making our documentation available in multiple
languages is an important step to ensure, that everyone, regardless of their
native language, can access and contribute to OpenTelemetry.

We are thrilled that with this update, we enable end users to access our
documentation in their native language which makes understanding and learning
OpenTelemetry much easier.

To access the documentation in your preferred language, use the language
selector at the top right of the page.

This is just the beginning! We have a team starting to translate the
documentation into Spanish (es), and we expect even more languages in the
future!

We invite you to contribute to this effort! If you are fluent in a language that
is supported already, you can help by authoring or reviewing translations. If
your language is not yet supported, please reach out to us, by raising an issue.

Your contributions can make a meaningful impact!

> We thank all contributors that have helped to make this possible, and we are
> looking forward to see how these new language options will make our project even
> better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We thank all contributors that have helped to make this possible and look forward to seeing
how these new language options improve the OpenTelemetry user experience. 
```

---
title: OpenTelemetry website goes multilingual!
linkTitle: Multilingual website
date: 2024-08-21
author: >-
  [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm) (Cisco),
issue: 4863
sig: Comms
cSpell:ignore: Comms
---

We are happy to announce that the OpenTelemetry website is available in
multiple languages! Localization teams have already started to translate website

> pages into Portuguese (pt), Chinese (zh), and Japanese (ja).

Author: ```suggestion
pages into [Portuguese](/pt), [Chinese](/zh), [Japanese](/ja) and [Spanish](/es).
```

The OpenTelemetry project has grown to include contributors and users from all
over the world. Making the website available in multiple languages is an
important step for ensuring that everyone, regardless of their native language,
can contribute to the project. We are also thrilled that this initiative gives
end users access to multilingual documentation, making it easier to learn and
understand OpenTelemetry.

To access the website in your preferred language, use the language
selector at the top right of the page.

> More localizations are underway, including Spanish, and we expect supporting more languages in the
> future.

Author: ```suggestion
```

We invite you to contribute to this effort. You can find fellow localization
contributors in the
[#otel-docs-localization](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C076RUAGP37)
Slack channel. If you are fluent in a language that is supported already, you
can help by authoring or reviewing translations. If your language is not yet

> supported and you'd like to help translate, reach out to us by raising an
> issue.

Author: ```suggestion
supported and you'd like to help translate, 
[reach out to us by raising an issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/new?title=Add+%3Cyour%20language%3E+(%3Cyour+code%3E)+version+of+website+pages&body=%3C!--+please+provide+github+handles+of+at+least+2+people+that+will+work+on+this+translation+project%20--%3E).
```

---

> title: 中文, 日本語, Português — OpenTelemetry website goes multilingual

Reviewer 3: I think we should go with localized blog posts if possible and avoid the multilingual title, which reads kind of Babel-like. :)

Author: ```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry website goes multilingual!
```

linkTitle: Multilingual website
date: 2024-08-21
author: >-
  [Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm) (Cisco),
issue: 4863
sig: Comms

> cSpell:ignore: Comms Português

Author: ```suggestion
cSpell:ignore: Comms
```

---

We are happy to announce that the OpenTelemetry documentation now supports
multiple languages! Teams of contributors have already started to translate our

> resources into Portuguese (pt), Chinese (zh), and Japanese (ja).

Reviewer: A few comments:

- Is it really worth adding the language ID?
- Let's maybe instead link each language to it's landing page.

Reviewer 3: Agree on leaving out the language id.

Author: ah that's a great idea!

> We are happy to announce that the OpenTelemetry documentation now supports
> multiple languages! Teams of contributors have already started to translate our
> resources into Portuguese (pt), Chinese (zh), and Japanese (ja).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are happy to announce that the OpenTelemetry website is available in
multiple languages! Localization teams have already started to translate website
pages into Portuguese (pt), Chinese (zh), and Japanese (ja).
```

The OpenTelemetry project has grown to include contributors and users from all

> over the world. Making our documentation available in multiple languages is an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
over the world. Making the website available in multiple languages is an
```

important step for ensuring that everyone, regardless of their native language,
can contribute to the project. We are also thrilled that this initiative gives
end users access to multilingual documentation, making it easier to learn and
understand OpenTelemetry.

> To access the documentation in your preferred language, use the language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the website in your preferred language, use the language
```

selector at the top right of the page.

> This is just the beginning! A team of contributors has just begun to translate
> the documentation into Spanish (es), and we expect to add more languages in the
> future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More localizations are underway, including Spanish, and we expect supporting more languages in the
future.
```

Author: since we have merged Spanish now, we should have it with the other ones I guess

> We invite you to contribute to this effort! You can find fellow localization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We invite you to contribute to this effort. You can find fellow localization
```

contributors in the
[#otel-docs-localization](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C076RUAGP37)
Slack channel. If you are fluent in a language that is supported already, you
can help by authoring or reviewing translations. If your language is not yet

> supported and you'd like to help translate, please reach out to us by raising an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supported and you'd like to help translate, reach out to us by raising an
```

> issue.

Reviewer: Add a link to the new-issue GH feature and pre-populate it with at least a title? WDYT?

Author: yes! Thanks

Your contributions can make a meaningful impact!

> We thank all contributors that have helped to make this possible and look
> forward to seeing how these new language options improve the OpenTelemetry user
> experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We thank all contributors for making this possible, and we look
forward to seeing how these new language options improve the OpenTelemetry user
experience.
```
